The President:
Hi, everybody.
In the State of the Union, I
laid out three areas we need to
focus on if we're going to
build an economy that lasts:
new American manufacturing,
new skills and education for
American workers, and new
sources of American-made energy.
These days, we're getting
another painful reminder why
developing new energy is
so important to our future.
Just like they did last
year, gas prices are
starting to climb.
Only this time, it's
happening earlier.
And that hurts everyone --
everybody who owns a car;
everybody who owns a business.
It means you have to stretch
your paycheck even further.
Some folks have no choice but
to drive a long way to work,
and high gas prices are
like a tax straight out of
their paychecks.
Now, some politicians always see
this as a political opportunity.
And since it's an election year,
they're already dusting off
their same three-point
plan for $2 gas.
I'll save you the suspense:
Step one -- according to them --
is drill, step two is drill, and
step three is to keep drilling.
We hear the same
thing every year.
We've heard the same
thing for 30 years.
Well, the American
people aren't stupid.
You know that's not a plan
-- especially since we're
already drilling.
It's a bumper sticker.
It's not a strategy to
solve our energy challenge.
It's a strategy to get
politicians through an election.
You know there are no quick
fixes to this problem,
and you know we can't just drill
our way to lower gas prices.
If we're going to take control
of our energy future and avoid
these gas price spikes down the
line, then we need a sustained,
all-of-the-above strategy that
develops every available source
of American energy -- oil,
gas, wind, solar, nuclear,
biofuels, and more.
We need to keep developing the
technology that allows us to use
less oil in our cars and trucks;
in our buildings and plants.
That's the strategy
we're pursuing,
and that's the only real
solution to this challenge.
Now, we absolutely need safe,
responsible oil production here
in America.
And that's why under
my Administration,
America is producing more oil
today than at any time in the
last eight years.
In 2010, our dependence on
foreign oil was under 50% for
the first time in
more than a decade.
And while there are no
short-term silver bullets when
it comes to gas prices, I've
directed my administration to
look for every single area where
we can make an impact and help
consumers in the months ahead,
from permitting to delivery
bottlenecks to what's going
on in the oil markets.
But over the long term, an
all-of-the-above energy strategy
means we have to do more.
It means we have to
make some choices.
Here's one example.
Right now, four billion of your
tax dollars subsidize the oil
industry every year.
Four billion dollars.
Imagine that.
Maybe some of you are listening
to this in your car right now,
pulling into a gas
station to fill up.
As you watch those numbers rise,
know that oil company profits
have never been higher.
Yet somehow, Congress is still
giving those same companies
another four billion
dollars of your money.
It's outrageous.
And it has to stop.
A century of subsidies to the
oil companies is long enough.
It's time to end taxpayer
giveaways to an industry that's
never been more profitable, and
use that money to reduce our
deficit and double-down on a
clean energy industry that's
never been more promising.
Because of the investments
we've already made,
the use of wind and solar energy
in this country has nearly
doubled -- and thousands
of Americans have jobs
because of it.
And because we put in place the
toughest fuel economy standards
in history, our cars will
average nearly 55 miles per
gallon by the middle
of the next decade --
something that, over time, will
save the typical family more
than $8,000 at the pump.
Now Congress needs to keep that
momentum going by renewing the
clean energy tax credits that
will lead to more jobs and less
dependence on foreign oil.
Look, we know there's no silver
bullet that will bring down gas
prices or reduce our dependence
on foreign oil overnight.
But what we can do is get
our priorities straight,
and make a sustained, serious
effort to tackle this problem.
That's the commitment
we need right now.
And with your help, it's
a commitment we can make.
Thanks.